this is not the big short it's not the
big short 2.0 something very different
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you in today's video we
are going to break down where the
biggest concern is right here and now
you need to understand this at all
levels even if you're not even an
investor because it will affect you your
house price potentially the economy and
jobs this is something that everybody
needs to know it's complicated I'm going
to EXP explain it as simple as I can I
know you can get it because all of this
information is right here in front of
our very eyes beginning with this
billionaire uh Barry sterck sees more
than $1 trillion doar of losses for
office real estate calling the
properties one asset class that never
recovered from 2020 the office Market
has an existential crisis right now
which is largely a US phenomenon because
workers haven't gone back to their desks
not just not just us actually
uh but certainly that is a very big
problem there's way too much retail and
way too much office in a lot of the
areas in the United States one A3
trillion asset class offices are now
probably worth $1.8 trillion there's $
1.2 trillion of losses spread somewhere
and nobody knows exactly where it all is
you got to think about this all these
towers you see Towers you see glass you
see concrete but it's all debt it's debt
that's how that stuff was built that's
how we get things done these days not
with real wealth not with things that
are you know sustainable no we want more
and more debt it's crazy that's what's
going on the debt that's associated with
that that's the problem let me let me
break it down further okay property
owners have struggled to refinance loans
as buildings value decline as the
Federal Reserve increased their interest
rates rapidly over the past couple of
years now where Regional banks have been
previously a source funds for Real
Estate owners they have disappeared from
the market they're they can't they can't
loan right now we are in the business of
getting loans the banks don't show up
they're not even playing so the
alternatives are the debt funds which
are having a field day fed policies have
a serious mess in the capital markets
and real estate and anything that's
yield related of course because of the
chaos of increasing interest rates when
you're so used and addicted to low
interest rates this is what I was
talking about with the uh Finance Friday
group basically saying that credit is
tightening and when you have that just
like that occurred during the financial
crisis that aspect is certainly there
today but in commercial real estate so
if you want 30-year mortgage on a single
family home and you got the down payment
you got the job and you could fill in
the paperwork there's no concern but in
the commercial side there's a big
problem why is that the case it's
because commercial real estate is
heavily Reliant believe it or not more
than 50% on the regional Banks but if
you look back what happened a year ago
Regional Banks started to
fail these Regional banks are heavily
exposed to commercial real estate they
can't pay this stuff back there's a big
concern there it's a very big concern in
fact that is the weakest link and so we
start to unravel that well how much of
this debt is going to have to roll over
uh what's going on is there going to be
consolid
ations think about one big big big
company that might scoop up some of
these
corporations okay keep that in mind us
real estate market will be very ugly
next year according to Howard lutnick
okay $700 billion of defaults are coming
and so whether it's 700 whether it's you
know 1.2 trillion I don't know okay you
even got Gran Cardone coming up in this
okay looking at a $700 billion uh
problem looking at this why it's because
of interest rates they're talking about
this I think when what's going to happen
is the loan sales which no one talks
about are going to become a huge
business when mortgages on commercial
buildings come to a trillion dollars
come and do in the next two and a half
years that's important to note at these
high rates you're not going to get
proceeds meaning that when you have $120
million loan on a building and somebody
says I'll give you 90 million at a much
higher rate you throw the keys back to
the lenders real estate Equity rates are
going to be in trouble now this again is
not the single family home in a nice
neighborhood not at all this is talking
about those big properties maybe it's
the office Towers big we're talking
about the big stuff the retail the
offices that stuff and you got to
understand there's a lot of debt assoc
iated with that and big banks that
employ a lot of people are at stake
that's why it's a concern now I don't
care about Jamie demon and his bonus
this year that's not what I'm talking
about but Jamie demon is the CEO of a
company that does employ a lot of people
and if JP is firing people well then the
other Banks start firing people then the
insurance companies start firing people
and then one by one by one it starts to
Cascade that's what we want to hope to
avoid we want to hope to avoid that in a
best case scenario you know things kind
of go sideways for a while things start
to catch up to it do they let it happen
no usually it's very exaggerated up very
exaggerated down and things get real
real crazy the real estate downturn
comes for America's Premier office
Towers rents at the highest end
buildings fall and rate of leasing
slows yeah not in most cases with rents
from what I've seen they they of course
course come off the peak but the peak is
so crazy and odd um it really depends on
where we're looking of course some
places some places are really sought
after and uh it's very attractive and
there's not homeless people pitching up
tents on every single corner and the
drug infested environments it depends
certainly but a lot of major cities
though are experiencing some chaos
commercial real estate debt maturities
$2.5 trillion in the next 5 years we've
got trillions of dollars they got to
roll over and interest rates are too
high what will happen in between now and
then of course they're expecting these
will go down but as of now uhoh you got
a problem what did they first negotiate
negotiate at if they were buying in 2020
they were getting super low interest
rates right they were getting super low
interest rates in 2020 2021 and now
they're going to have to get higher
rates that they can't afford that they
need 0% interest rates the FED funds
rate so that their mortgage rates will
be reasonable they're not getting that
so who is that big company ah yes
Blackstone Blackstone Dives deeper into
housing bet with a $3.5 billion deal
asset manager agreed to buy a landlord
Trion residential deal expands
blackstone's reach into us and Canada's
rental markets they're going to buy
everything these companies these are who
you are going to you know in these
future
Generations they're the ones that will
own the single family homes not you not
not the children the grandchildren not
the the zenial the zenial okay the
genz they are not the ones that are
going to be buying homes they can't they
can't they might inherit a home sure do
they want to take care of a home they're
inside they got their goggles on walking
down the street type in away on their
with their apple Vision Pros that they
took a mortgage on to get uh they
they're not gonna they're not going to
cut the grass they're not going to
repair their home they don't want that
they're going to live in a pod with
their you know little Vision Pro thing
on and they're going to be zoned out
that's the world that's and by the way
they rented it probably they didn't take
the mortgage out uh because they
couldn't qualify for the loan because of
what's happened with the devaluation of
the currencies imagine what it's going
to be like in 20 years look this is
what's going on with commercial real
estate it's it's crazy this is
definitely a problem for so many people
and of course in the end what does it
mean it means that the big companies
will own more and more and more these
are the rats the rats particularly the
office rats have performed very poorly
as expected so watch out if you're
exposed to any rats I've been talking
about this for years but be concerned
look you want to see that fall look at
that fall I've been telling people 2020
and be G don't touch this stuff don't
get involved in it and of course as a
result we've seen that collapse taking
place in many different ways um it
didn't take a genius to figure that out
I just kept saying I kept screaming
about it all
right this is just talking about the
small Loosely regulated lenders in
Canada um talking about how they did you
know offering mortgages higher interest
rates are now showing signs of stress as
a spike in living costs push homeowners
towards a def fault um when we look at
beyond the you know the big Banks you go
into these mortgage investment companies
the United States has other similar
things where we go out into Shadow Banks
and things you have concerns there and
delinquencies have been rising look at
go out into China you see a lot of you
know similar patterns when we go outside
of the JP Morgans and the Goldman saches
of the world there are cracks that have
appeared and that is where problems lie
a group of renters in the US say that
landlords are using software to deliver
inflated rent ties we've been told as
tenants by employees of equity that the
software takes the empathy out of the
equation so that they can charge
whatever the software tells them to
charge what's going on here is that we
have these big establishments these big
companies the blackstones of the world
that are buying up all of these
different whether it's commercial real
estate uh or it's commercial being um
you know multif Family Properties and
they're going to own everything they're
going to charge rent that they're going
to increase on and you can't go please
can you can you help me I can't pay my
bills this month they're they're a
faceless
nameless corporation that does not care
about you that will not under any
circumstances help you out that's what's
coming that's the concern that's why
this is an issue all right if you want
to know more details I talked a lot
about uh real estate in depth I mean
I've done so many videos on here I
talked about that in my first book I
talked about in my second book I've got
information in the playlists on my
channel as well I've got that on the
money gps.com under Compass you can
learn about real estate what you need to
pay attention to and of course I break
it down day after day or I should say
week after week on my Friday Finance
live sessions where I go way in depth
onto subjects week after week going from
like 30,000 foot view breaking every
aspect of this down so that you could
know you could just know immediately you
see a piece of information you add it to
your own database knowing exactly what
that means for you that is just
impossible to do on this YouTube videos
of course the concern is certainly there
for Real Estate at this time commercial
real estate being the weakest link but
banks are exposed jobs are exposed and
that is the big problem that we face
today what other issues do you see right
now when it relates to real estate let
me know I know there's a lot of
YouTubers out there talking about crash
crash crash crash crash but there's much
more to it hit that thumbs up button on
the way out I do appreciate that very
much and as always I'll see you tomorrow
take care